Named Entity Recognition is used to extract information form the text and helps in classifying the text with entities such as person name, location, date, organisation, etc. This project uses Natural Langauge Processing to develop a Named Entity Recognition System which will help us tag our data with our custom(own made) entities. Entity recogntion is used by many systems like flight booking systems, restaurant food ordering system, medical facility search system, etc. Most of the websites have a chatbot embedded in it which solves the user queries by recognising the intent and the entities in the user query replying with the most suitable solution. Here, in this project, I have made the bot to be company specific where the bot will recognise specific entities like programming language(entity:lang), organisation(entity: org), technology(entity: tech) and product(entity: prod).
This project uses two ways to tag the query: 1.) The python code uses 'spacy_ner'. Using 'spacy' library, we will make our own dataset (here 'dataset1') and train the model using that. The dataset is written in 'json' format and then is converted in the format required by spacy. The model can then be tested for a new user query. 2.)The Rasa framework works on Natural Langauge Understanding and is trained by the intents, entities and stories. The Rasa x is an AI assisstant which works on the Rasa framework and recognises the intents and entities and reply to the user just like the chatbot. The performance of the bot becomes better as we train it more.
